Yeah, it's
not...
Hi.
John and Wendy, thank you so much for your time.
We have half an hour with you, so if you would like to start with some
opening remarks, then we will have questions following. Thank you.
Look, thank you for the opportunity to be here today.
I'm John Kensington, the chair of the External Reporting Board.
I've been on the chair since last August, and I've been a board member for eight
years prior to that. I'm joined by Wendy,
our chief executive, Wendy Venter, along with Dr Amelia Sharman, our
director of sustainability reporting, and Dawn Bowden, our general manager of
corporate services.
Now, the XRB sets financial reporting standards, assurance standards, and
climate reporting standards
that provide consistent, internationally comparable information people can trust
and use to make decisions. And those standards apply across the entire economy,
from large listed companies, public sector organizations,
through to charities, incorporated societies, and small owner-operated
businesses. It is important to note we do not
regulate or enforce those standards, and we do not decide who they
apply to. So Parliament sets the legislative requirements, and
regulators such as the FMA or Charity Services are responsible for oversight and
enforcement.
But what we do underpins confidence in New Zealand's economy,
supports access to global capital, strengthens transparency and
accountability across both the public and private sectors.
So high-quality standards are not an end in themselves.
They're a means to better government risk management and capital allocation.
Now, as the
world becomes more complex and transactions become more complex,
reporting becomes more complex. So proportionality really
matters. And that's why in New Zealand we use a tiered system,
so that the large entities can report the information they need to be
able to meet international expectations, whereas smaller organizations
report information more appropriate to their size.
So look, I'll hand over now to Wendy to outline our performance to date and our
priorities.
Thank you, and good afternoon, and thank you, Chair, for the opportunity to appear
before the committee for this financial review.
Just building on what John has said, in terms of setting our
standards, what we really are trying to do is to make sure our standards are
internationally aligned, but also locally relevant,
and fit for purpose in the New Zealand context.
So what does that actually mean in practice? Two things.
We try to influence, and we do actively influence the
international standard setting, so our relationships there, and then make
domestic modifications to fit our legal and, as John was sort of saying, our
economic context.
I guess, in terms of the '24-25 year, the year under scrutiny,
I just wanted to sort of highlight that we did deliver quite a significant
program of work.
Notably, we sort of amended the climate reporting standards to provide relief
to entities facing implementation challenges,
with some aspects of the reporting, and we issued a new standard for the
audits of less complex entities, it's called.
Both these examples illustrate our strategic priority of developing
fit-for-purpose standards.
The other thing that we do quite a lot of, and it has been increasing over the
years, is supporting guidance, and supporting the implementation of our
standards by providing guidance.
As good examples of that would be,
we started it in the '24-25 year, that continues
into this year. We are really supporting the rollout of a new
standard, a standard that will apply from next year to for-profit entities, which
will change the way profit and performance is measured in financial statements.
And we also have done a lot of work with incorporated societies in
helping them understand the requirements of the legislation that was
introduced in
2022.Looking ahead,
there's probably three main strategic priorities that I just wanted to
highlight. One was the review of the accounting standards framework
that John sort of talked about just now.
The other is later this year, we will be consulting and
engaging with our stakeholders on a draft climate reporting roadmap for New
Zealand to provide certainty about the future direction there.
And the third priority is really the world of emerging
technologies, and AI is absolutely front of mind for international
standard-setters and for us.
And we just are really focused on understanding the opportunities, risks, and
implications, particularly with the auditing standards, has been a
focus for the current year. And this is the final point.
I just wanted to acknowledge the XRB team.
Clearly, that's sort of our... And that's the staff, the boards, the
technical boards, and really importantly, the very many stakeholders
who basically contribute their time and expertise to our work.
So we could not do this job without that engagement.
And in that context, really proud that our
'24-'25 results show that 83% of our stakeholders
were overall satisfaction with that we contribute to our purpose of
trust and confidence in New Zealand's external reporting.
That's it. That's it from me. That's good.
And very much look forward to the committee's questions. Yes. Thank you. Yeah.
And that was very nice of you to acknowledge
everybody. Mm-hmm.
And we have a first question from Marina Williams.
Kia ora koutou. Thank you very much for coming in, and welcome back, Wendy.
Just hoping to hone in on the climate-related disclosures
regimes brought in-
Yeah
... and then face a significant change from government.
Yeah.
Firstly, on your role as system steward and
you're exercising some soft influence within the market, how have you
seen
the market respond to a level of change and
disruption?
Yeah.
And how do
you sort of
measure that? What kind of impact is that having on
the ability to get the right people in the room with these entities, the ability
to have a workforce that's prepared to audit for climate?
Yeah.
What are the flow-on impacts?
No, it's a good question there. It's very much has been,
I guess, our focus in terms of setting the standards with climate reporting was
really sort of understanding
what we could do. It lines up, but they're supporting adoption and implementation.
So we've done quite a lot there. We sort of work with preparers, insurers
right across the ecosystem to go issued a huge amount of guidance
over the last,
ever since the standard came out. I know Amelia and the team have been very busy
with that. What we have seen is
essentially any new regime comes with
introduces change.
There is always that's the aspect of change, and this was a
new regime in terms of being mandatory.
I think it's fair to say it's also really steep learning curve.
So that's the targeted changes that I sort of highlighted in my
introduction was very much a response to this is actually
really tough here. What can we do, a standard-setter, to provide a bit of
relief and provide a little bit more time for people to adjust.
So that's what we were seeing, getting data, getting the people.
What we are seeing more recently, though, is people, as they start to
essentially understand the requirements, get to the value of what the
standards are there to provide, which is then set out in primary legislation, which
is how are you fundamentally thinking about your risk and opportunities from
climate change.
So that's what we've seen in the market.
It's an ongoing thing. We speak anecdotally.
We get sort of quite a lot of examples of how people are, and
then respond to that. So I think that's probably the sort of
overarching comments I would make.
But if I haven't quite
got it, yeah, let me know if you want me to-
The thing I'm interested in is the-
Yeah
... quality and the consistency of disclosures.
I mean, that is your role-
Yeah
... within the system.
Mm-hmm.
Do you have some observations about...
Because really, you're not reporting on a single figure.
Yeah.
A lot of the time you're asking people to respond to questions that are
qualitative about their-
Yeah
... ability to respond to climate challenges.
Mm-hmm.
So they need to buy into that.
Yeah.
So what are you noticing at the moment about the quality and consistency of
disclosures? Is that different from a couple of years ago?
How do we ensure that when we set a standard, that standard is met, whatever that
standard might be?
Yeah.
So I think the quality, you're quite right to highlight that it's not like
financial information, and it is a little bit different.
We have experience in
performance information that's not dissimilar.
So what we are definitely finding is that it's really people sort of
understanding there are judgments to be made here about what is material,
and then for preparers and markets to understand and to do that.
So I think it's really about getting the right metrics that people can have
that
quality and consistency. We have been
sort of in terms of looking at
understanding what the changes are doing, measuring that impact.
So I think we started through our work on post-implementation review, looking at
evaluations of how that will roll out.
So that's where I think we will get a little bit more than anecdotal.
But yeah, I think that's probably the key thing I would highlight there. Yeah.
So blue and green.
So just interested in the audit-
Yeah
... workforce for climate.
Yeah.
Is it a mature workforce in New Zealand? Are we training up the right numbers?
You have a go at it? Because I might get John to as well. Yeah.
In my day job, excuse me, I am an audit partner.
Yeah.
So,
I think back to your first question, one thing I would add is that people who've
been through it three times are more comfortable doing it the third time.
There's a learning curve, and we've seen them move up the curve quite
quickly and quite well. In terms of the audit workforce, it's a very
interesting one. There's a lot of training we need to do within the firms
to get up to the same skill set levels and understandings
that we have for traditional accounting, if you like to call it that.But
I think the really interesting thing is certainly the
graduates that we're getting now, and a large
number of more senior staff, are actually quite interested in it and want to do it
because
they might be a little tired of doing the run-of-the-mill audit work they've been
doing. So we've really had
less of a challenge than I think we thought we would getting people to want to look
at and be involved in climate reporting.
And we've been able to pick up a few experts along the way.
And that would be, I'm sure, similar across all the firms.
Mm-hmm.
Dr. Nicholas.
Yes. Yeah and I appreciate this question might actually have tapped...
Yeah, appreciate the previous line of questioning, sorry, was
focusing on environmental reporting.
And I suppose
including that, but actually more widely, how do you measure whether
your standards are actually improving the
quality of reporting? Not necessarily just the compliance
with those standards, but that actually the reporting
for the general public, for government, is actually improving.
Yeah. In terms of the
measurement of the quality of the standards?
Mm.
Yeah. In terms of the outcomes of the reporting.
Yes. Yeah.
But I think there's probably different
things that I would highlight.
I guess
two things. The standards are there to sort of say there are some requirements
about what information do you think is the most useful for the primary user.
Mm.
And it's defined usually as the investor and the lender.
That's something that's thought about very hard in the design to actually
achieve the objectives of that reporting.
Most of our standards, I should add, are international standards.
And so what we are really working there to do is actually
talk to the users. So I think the answer to the question would be to design it
into the requirements of what is going to be quality.
When they're actually implemented, then it starts to get a little bit more broader
into actually the whole ecosystem working to go, okay, what does
quality look like in terms of compliance?
The preparers, the assurance, the audit that happens actually
gives you basically a report on whether it's met the requirements and
the fairness of the financial statements as an example.
And I would also emphasize the role of the FMA in terms of
monitoring and enforcing it, because they give these monitoring reports that give
you insight into quality. These disclosures are not quite right here.
So all of those factors are
factors that basically give you insight into the quality of the reporting.
Yeah.
I suppose the question was,
it's a little bit easier to work out whether
a reporting standard has been met-
Yeah
... whether there was.
Mm.
But actually, what's the quality of the actual standard?
Different to actually whether it was met or not.
Right.
Are we actually improving the quality of reporting in New Zealand?
I think by adopting an international standard, which is principally
we are what we call a standard taker.
By adopting an international standard that has had the best
global minds think about
should it be done this way, they've gone out, put it out for expression of
interests, and sought submissions back.
And then we do a similar quick process here.
I think that probably helps
a lot. I think to your point about is reporting improving,
I think that is then the work of the regulator, where they then look at the reports
and see, is the right information getting out here?
Are we avoiding
financial disruption in the market, or worse still, scandals in the
country through the reporting? And are people able to invest with
some certainty that it's a level playing field for all investors?
Mm.
Mm. Yes.
Right. And Dr. Vanessa.
Thank you, Madam Chair. You mentioned in your opening statements around
AI and standards in regard to that.
Does that mean setting standards for AI or the use of AI
in auditing, or what's the role there?
Yeah.
Not setting standards for AI.
The role is very much considering the opportunities and the risks that
AI poses for how people go about reporting,
and the assurance standards. So it's very much a focus on the assurance
standards. So the international auditing standards setter, and we've been working
very closely with them. And we are on a small
number of jurisdiction advising them, going
probably three things that are focused, is basically
embedding a technology focus in any new standard setting.
Mm-hmm.
Okay, how is technology used today? How can it be done?
Going back and looking at some really core auditing standards, so the
classic audit evidence and risk response.
How do you actually get insight into getting audit evidence risk
response when technology is just fundamentally the, I guess people
talk about black box nature.
Mm.
And then the third thing is actually keeping abreast of what's going on.
Whether it's the global firms who obviously have...
What are we understanding in the market, if you like, in terms of how
are reporting organizations using AI?
Mm-hmm.
How are auditors using AI?
What are the opportunities of... Essentially the innovation.
You can get basically lots more insight
very rapidly.
Yeah.
And we're just beginning that. So that's the nature of the work, and I hope that
gives you a little bit of a flavor-
Yeah. Absolutely
... of how we think about AI and technology. Yeah.
Good. Members, are there any other questions?
Very briefly.
Yep. Aruna Williams.
The availability of auditors was a real problem for government two years ago.
I'm interested in what you're seeing around trends in workforce,
not climate.
And AI will be a part of that, but is that in fact speeding things up?
Mm-hmm.
Is that helping us do more?
I think you might be the right person to talk to that.
Yeah
So I can give it from a firm perspective here.
Yeah.
I think what we've seen is over the last five years,
the automation of our audit approaches has meant that we can take last year's
file, roll it over, for example,
keep the audit program of the work through, but delete all the information.
And I think that has resulted in us needing less people to do the
job. The availability of auditors, it was definitely a problem
when there was COVID and no travel, but actually people like to come to New Zealand
and see
New Zealand for what it is.
And the global networks are very much interested in making sure their staff
get on these international exchanges and see the world.
So it's never going to be easy. There are more glamorous jobs than being an
auditor. But I think we're probably back to a stage now where that
supply of staff constraint is less of a problem than it
was.
One-
Mm
... sorry, one more thing I would add.
I know
the professional services organizations like Chartered Accountants
Australia, New Zealand, they are looking at sort of widening the pipeline at the
bottom, going, "Actually, who are the people we're trying to attract into the
profession?"
Mm-hmm.
And actually, can we think about the sorts of skills that future
accountants and auditors need in a far more holistic,
the technology implications, all of it.
So I think it's quite a big focus, the attractiveness and
retention I know wider from a focus.
So that's something I'd just add to what John said.
Gee, do we have room for one more?
Yeah.
So, yes. You finished your question?
Oh, go for it.
Yeah. So, Dr. Wood, if you don't mind.
Yeah.
Given that
the public sector has gone through this whole process of moving towards outcomes
based performance, and now kind of reflecting on
yourselves, there's a nice comment in here around
looking at non-financial transactions and how you
assemble information, performance information, that sort of thing.
Yeah.
I'm also interested in the VFM side of it, so the financial side of
it. So from our perspective, are we getting value from your
organization for the amount of money that we spend in terms
of that? So the outcomes, which is what Hamish was referring
to, I think-
Mm
... in terms of not only who you're working for, but also yourselves.
Mm.
How do you see that working through your work program now that
you're looking ahead?
In terms of non-financial? I just wanted to clarify, not-
Value for money
... value for money. Right.
Yeah.
Yeah. No, absolutely.
There's two things, I guess,
us as an organization-
Correct
... which is essentially,
and that's been quite central to
probably ever since the XRB's established.
I've only been chief executive since early last year.
But I think we are a sort of a crown organization, a
crown entity. We get public money through our appropriation.
Like any
organization, we are apt... Or any organization dealing with the
challenges that we've had since COVID-
Yeah
... and since is what can we do differently? Where do we need to prioritize?
What's the most valuable thing we do?
We've had real examples over the last few years where we've just turned our
mind to
really focusing in on what is our core role here and who can we
work with, who can we leverage, leverage is not quite the right...
Collaborate with to achieve even better outcomes.
So I would say, and we've
implemented things like using
productivity tools in our organization.
We rolled out Copilot, really strongly encouraging people to,
how can we just do things and just really embrace the
benefits that we can get to
get to, as you say, a more efficient, effective outcome.
Yeah, and I guess I'm just sort of-
Yeah
... reiterating where-
... Hamish was going on this.
Yeah.
And that is that we want to ask the question: are we getting value from this
organization in terms of the outcomes and the outputs from-
Yeah
... from it?
Yeah.
Our sense is yes.
But some good information around that would be good.
Yeah.
I guess in a
funny way, the counterfactual is probably important, too.
If you didn't have good quality standards,
New Zealand's been lucky in that we haven't had a financial crisis of the magnitude
of
some other countries. And I think that is probably down to the fact that there has
been disciplines in place and required reporting in place.
Mm.
And that reporting's gone through boards and been considered and challenged.
So, the counterfactual is take away the accounting standards,
let industry use whatever they like.
It's a Mad Max type race.
Yeah. So I think what I'm saying is we need information-
Yeah
... on how the standards are-
... as Hamish was saying-
Yeah
... are being utilized and implemented.
Yeah. No, absolutely.
The value of that.
No, and it's essentially that point around the performance. How do you get impact?
And actually there is an element of what are the broader indicators.
We might not have direct line of sight of exactly what is that standard, like what
can we do to collect that information. No, I understand the point.
Of course.
Yeah.
Okay. Dr. Hamish Cameron.
Yes. And probably following on from that, you operate in
a rich ecosystem with many different players-
Mm. Yeah
... from the FMA, the Auditor General's office, Treasury,
and all probably produce guidance.
How do you ensure that, A, you work together and there's no duplication
of effort between different organizations?
Yeah, look, for example, probably the best example of that is with the FMA.
We have an MoU with them we probably put in place about three years ago.
Mm-hmm.
Where we talk to them about, "Hey, please don't you try and set standards.
If you want a standard to be set because you think something's not there, come and
talk to us and we can do that, and we won't cross across into regulation." And
I guess we regularly meet with the players in the
ecosystem to make sure we are
effectively staying in our lane, I suppose.
Mm.
Yeah.
Can I follow on that? And I suppose that's kind of internal in New
Zealand.
Talked about being a
standards taker or a regulation taker.
Is
there a stage where actually it's ridiculous New Zealand has its own
entity to do this rather than actually just fully taking
standards from Australia, the UK,
other jurisdictions?
Yeah. New Zealand has a fairly unique tiered system,
which ensures the large entities, so your banks, insurers, Fonterra, they're
reporting all the information their compatriots overseas.
We've also got at the bottom end of that tier system
reporting requirements specifically designed for New Zealand entities.
So the risk of going to a jurisdiction and relying
completely on another jurisdiction is you'd be stuck with
their-
Mm
... tiering, which may not really consider some of those
bottom-end entities that New Zealand has size-wise.
Yeah.
Yeah. Great. Looks like that's it.
Thank you so much for your time, and thanks for answering questions.
And you might have more questions later on from us. Thank you.
Thank you.
No, thank you.
Appreciate that. Thank you. And thanks for the opportunity.
Yeah, thank you very much.
Yeah